the US has joined an international
operation to airdrop desperately needed
supplies into Gaza the Pentagon says
three Air Force planes carried out the
first drop of more than 35,000 meals the
Biden Administration says Israel
supports its intervention to bolster
existing efforts by Jordan and other
nations the UN is warning that famine in
Gaza is almost inevitable unless Aid
deliveries increase significantly
our next report contains images that
some viewers might find
distressing consoling each other the
boys have survived an Israeli air strike
in central
Gaza many others did
not but the fighting in the Gaza Strip
is in the only danger Palestinians face
disease and famine have become a major
threat children are most at risk St
starvation has now taken the lives of
several children so the official records
yesterday or this morning said there was
a 10th child officially registered in a
hospital as having starved to death um a
very sad threshold similar sad as the
30,000 deaths we reached all over Gaza
the The Unofficial numbers can
unfortunately be expected to be
higher and the toll is climbing k Al
jazer broadcast this footage from Gaza
City on Friday when scores of
Palestinians were killed as they
surrounded an eight
conoy the Hamas run Health Ministry and
survivors accused the Israeli Army of
opening fire on the crowd Israel said
limited shots were fired near the eight
Convoy but insisted that most of the
Dead were trampled or run over by the
eight
trucks a un team has visited alaa
Hospital on
Friday it reported having seen a large
number of gunshot
victims the incident has Amplified the
demand for more eight to be delivered
without
delay neighboring Egypt and Jordan
recently air dropped essential items in
Gaza now the US says it will deliver
humanarian Aid VI parachute while
President Joe Biden pushes Israel to
improve other roots
we're going to insist that Israel
facilitate more trucks and more routes
to get more and more people the the help
they need no excuses because the truth
is Aid flowing to Gaza is nowhere nearly
enough now it's nowhere nearly enough
innocent lives are on the line and
children's lives are on the line and we
won't stand by and let until they until
we get more Aid in there reason Biden
has also signal a ceasefire deal between
Hamas and Israel could be reached soon
which many here hope would be a Lifeline
amid destruction and
loss let's bring in Mike Martin he's a
war studies senior fellow at Kings
College London and also a former British
army officer welcome to DW so as we just
heard President Biden hello says that
the US military is going to airdrop
supplies into Gaza similar to How uh
Jordan France and other countries have
done can you explain to us how exactly
something like this would work will
there be coordination with the Israeli
military do they do it independently
what's
involved uh so it is as you would
imagine you know you fly a plane uh and
then you push supplies out the back but
what you need is an area on the ground
that has been at least cleared or
secured so I'd imagine the us is going
to be trying to push the aid out near
the coast so it can fly in over the sea
and so that it's not flying over Gaza
which is obviously a war zone um but
then you need a partner on the ground
either the israelies or perhaps one of
the aid agencies who have uh in some way
designated an area that this Aid can
land in it's it's actually very very
difficult to do when it's not your own
people on the ground a securing The
Landing zone for your
planes so you mentioned some of the
challenges that this of course is still
an active war zone and you need people
on the ground so is this even going to
help if there isn't some sort of
security on the ground in Gaza as these
eight packages are pushed out of the
plane as you
described well I think actually you
you've hit the nail on the head is this
going to be effective
a plane so a Hercules plane which is one
of the two options that the US military
has can carry about 20 tons worth of
supplies a shipping container that goes
on the back of a truck is 30 tons so if
you've got you know a 10 truck Convoy or
a 20 truck Convoy that's 300 tons or 600
tons so you know an order of magnitude
bigger so really what I think we need to
ask ourselves is is this just for show
you can only drop food medicines are
quite difficult because they get broken
uh water you can't drop and as we've
discussed the amounts that you can
actually deliver are very difficult and
we've already spoken about the
deconfliction problems so I think that
you know if we're cynical we could argue
that this is of of a small impact on the
overall scale of the problem and really
I know the US is not getting much joy
from the Israelis but really that is the
route to opening up the humanitarian
problem is for the Israelis to allow
more trucks into
Gaza that was Mike Martin with the Kings
College London many thanks indeed for
your
insights thank
you